# tea458-coe332/homework02/
This repository includes four crucial files and one example file. The example animals.json file is not necessary and can be ignored, but is available to see the type of file that will be generated by these scripts.

## Script Descriptions
Argument descriptions in <>

generate_animals.py is a script that creates a list of 20 animal dictionaries that list their different body parts. Example in animals.json.
generate_animals.py (.json file)

read_animals.py is a script that reads in a given .json file taken as an argument, outputs one of the specific 'animals' key-value pairs. It also takes two more index arguments that choose two animal key-value pairs to be the parents and creates a child of the two parent animals by randomly mixing each of the qualities of the parents.
read_animals.py (json file) (parent 1 index) (parent 2 index)

test_read_animals.py is a script that runs unit tests on read_animals.py
No arguments taken

HW2_Dockerfile is the corresponding dockerfile used to create a Docker image containing the above scripts.

## To download and run the scripts directly:
Pull generate_animals.py and read_animals.py from the github repo, ensure Python3 is downloaded and available, and then run them in the order as listed. The unit test script is not necessary and the .json file is only an example.

## To build an image with the Dockerfile:
docker build -t <dockerhubusername>/<code>:<version> . -f HW2_Dockerfile
Useful command is listed above
You can also alternatively pull from dockerhub at axentom/homework02:1.1

## To run scripts inside container:
docker run --rm -it <dockerhubusername>/<code>:<version> /bin/bash
Useful command is listed above. Ensure matching values to those used to build image above. Scripts can be called from the command line per normal usage.

Alternatively, one can run a specific script without entering the container interactively. Example listed below:
docker run --rm -v $PWD:/data -u $(id -u):$(id -g) axentom/homework02:1.0 generate_animals.py /data/animals.json

## To run the unit tests:
Ensure an animals.json file has been created prior to use of the test script.
Call test script as normal.
